Construction, that is, writing software.
But this section is not tell you how to literally write software,
you already know that, of course.
In this section I want to think about two things,
why quality construction is important and also that you need a
standard way or process for your team to write software.
Here's just a quick definition of construction.
The actual development of software, unit testing,
and other system elements that meet the functional and technical requirements.
Pretty straightforward, sometimes it's called just construction,
building software, application development,
you know, a variety of different terms, of course.
I kind of like construction.
Why quality construction is important.
Okay,
software functional quality reflects how well it complies
with or conforms to a given design,
based on functional requirements or specifications.
That attribute can also be described as the fitness for purpose
of a piece of software or how it compares to competitors in the
marketplace as a worthwhile product.
You can literally write the best software in the world,
but if it doesn't meet the functional requirements,
hey who cares.
Software structural quality refers to how it meets non-functional requirements
that supports the delivery of the functional requirements,
such as robustness or maintainability,
the degree to which the software was produced correctly.
Predictability, so software quality drives predictability.
Do it once and do it right and there will be less rework,
less variation in productivity, and better performance overall.
Products get delivered on time and they get built more productively.
Poor quality is much more difficult to manage.
Predictability decreases as rework grows and the likelihood of a late,
lower quality product increases.
Reputation, some companies have a reputation for building quality software.
It becomes who they are,
a part of their brand or their team or organization and
ultimately it is the expectation people have of them,
which means of you.
Customers seek them out because of it,
a good solid reputation is hard to establish and easy to lose,
but when your company or your department has it,
it's a powerful business driver.
A few mistakes and that reputation can be gone,
creating major obstacles to sales and consequently your bottom line.
Employee morale,
the most productive and happy employees have pride in their work.
Enable the employees to build quality software will drive a
much higher level of morale and productivity.
On the other hand, poor products, lots of rework,
unhappy customers, and difficulty making deadlines have the opposite effect,
leading to expensive turnover and less productive workforce.
Customer satisfaction, a quality product satisfies the customer,
a satisfied customer comes back for more and provides positive referrals.
Customer loyalty is heavily driven by the quality of the
software you produce and services you provide.
And let's not forget that with the explosion of social media,
such as Twitter and Facebook, positive referrals can spread quickly.
Of course,
that means poor quality and dissatisfaction can also be communicated quickly,
even if not quicker than the good ones.
The bottom line, it all drives to the bottom line,
predictability and productive performance,
a stellar reputation, happy employees,
and satisfied customers are the formula for a successful
software business or a successful department.
Few other stand alone elements of a successful business have
as deep an impact as software quality.
Okay, now let's talk about the construction process.
The development or construction process.
I recommend that you have a best practice,
that is a way that you generally write your software.
First, design and architecture, as we talked in the previous section,
before you write any code,
you want to be sure you have reviewed the business requirements and
sketched out the best system design and architecture.
You have also determined the best practices and design patterns
to follow when you now being writing code.
These choices will be the foundation on which you
will write your software solutions.
Now there are many choices of methods to write software and most seem to be,
well, whatever.
Somehow you need to find that balance between creativity and structure.
Waterfall,
now this approach typically refers to a very rigid
approach and structure to software development in which
you do all of the planning up front, then all the requirements analysis,
then all the coding, then all the testing,
et cetera, kind of large, big, unwieldy steps.
Now that is one approach,
it's been used many times in the past and I still see it in
the present and sometimes users or user organizations want
to have those plans up front, want to have all the specs done,
and sometimes cannot be convinced to go more Agile or Scrum or things like that.
And in my case,
we've had to follow what the customer wants for customer satisfaction.
But there's also Agile, now again, it's not really a methodology to me,
but more of a philosophy of developing software.
Agile software development describes a set of principles for software
development under which requirements and solutions evolve through the
collaborative effort of self organizing cross functional teams.
Agile promotes adaptive planning, evolutionary development,
early delivery, continuous improvement,
and it encourages rapid and flexible response to change,
that's a biggie, there's always change.
As you have likely discerned,
the waterfall process I have mentioned is counter to
rapid and flexible response to change.
Scrum, it's just one example of a methodology under the Agile,
you know, approach, if you will, and philosophy.
There are many,
but it seems that scrum is one of the most popular in my experience.
There are several other Agile and Scrum courses that
you might check out in Pluralsight.
Kanban,
it's a technique of work management that is very simple and easy
to use and I'll be giving you a quick Kanban overview in a later
section on application maintenance.
Software configuration management and those tools that help do that.
They help you manage the task of tracking and
controlling changes in the software.
If something goes wrong, the SCM, or Software Configuration Management tool,
can determine what was changed and who changed it.
There are tons of tools out there, such as Team Foundation Server,
GitHub, Subversion, Bitbucket and many, many more.
Go do some research and pick one and use it.
Development platform and tools,
alright you will need to determine your suite of
development platform and tools needed to build,
test, and maintain your software.
Those tools and platforms are typically part of your
design and architecture roadmap.
So based on the requirements,
the roadmap helps you determine and identify the platforms and
tools to use in each particular application.
Normally for this course's scenario of about five developers,
I hope you have only one platform and a few tools,
but you never know. Now let's check out user acceptance testing.